# e/acc

e/acc[^eacc] is an acronym for Effective Accelerationism, which is an ideology and movement that draws from [Nick Land's](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nick_Land) theories of accelerationism to advocate for the belief that artificial intelligence and large language models (LLMs) will lead to a post-scarcity technological utopia. The name is also a play on Effective Altruism. [^EffectiveAltruism] [^Altruism]

> In the technological age, the powers of innovation and capitalism should be exploited to their extremes to drive radical social change — even if that means completely upending the current social order.

[^eacc]: [Effective Accelerationism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Effective_accelerationism), often abbreviated as "e/acc", is a 21st-century philosophical movement that explicitly espouses a pro-technology stance. Its proponents believe that artificial intelligence-driven progress is a great social equalizer which should be pushed forward. Adherents see themselves as a counterweight to the cautious view that AI is highly unpredictable and needs to be regulated, often giving their opponents the derogatory labels of "doomers" or "decels" (short for deceleration).

[^EffectiveAltruism]: [Effective Altruism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Effective_altruism) is a 21st-century philosophical and social movement that advocates "using evidence and reason to figure out how to benefit others as much as possible, and taking action on that basis".

[^Altruism]: [Altruism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Altruism) is the principle and practice of concern for the well-being and/or happiness of other humans or animals above oneself. It may be considered a synonym of selflessness, the opposite of selfishness.