# Thanks

I never realize the importance of [ThanksGiving](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thanksgiving) until I experience one myself.

I am somewhere in South Pasadena for over a week, living with a family, dining every day with them, family shopping for clothes, vegetables and everything else in between, watching movies, mixing both business dinners with family/friend getting-to-know meetings. Experiencing [Sushi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sushi) yet again.

I wasn’t that comfortable eating it during my last visit in June this year but now I am beginning to like it. I was surprised when the chief chef at [Yoshida](https://www.yelp.com/biz/yoshida-san-marino-2) recognized me with a -- `Hello, Long Time; No See`. Tasted the foods at a Thai Temple (I have forgotten where it was).

They have something called “Green Card Lottery”; yes, you can get Green Card through Lottery. Well, they say America is more about foods, merry-making, enjoyment, nice cars, vacations and all the other good stuffs and I am beginning to believe that. The weather in this part of the state is really cool, extremely nice and is really soothing to a person coming from the humid warm weather of Mumbai, India.

On this ThanksGiving day, the family had been frantically piling up cold drinks, preparing foods since early morning to entertain a good amount of guest. The meat balls are tasty, the smell of the huge Turkey had been tempting my taste-buds ever since it puffs out its first aroma.On this ThanksGiving day, the family had been frantically piling up cold drinks, preparing foods since early morning to entertain a good amount of guest. The meat balls are tasty, the smell of the huge Turkey had been tempting my taste-buds ever since it puffs out its first aroma.

Thanks.