# Digital Editions 1.5 Beta

Adobe announced the release of the first Beta version of <a href="http://labs.adobe.com/technologies/digitaleditions/">Digital Editions 1.5</a> and is available for downloads from Adobe Labs. The Beta gives an opportunity to early users and customers alike to test and provide feedback to Adobe on new features and compatibility with their digital publications.

Adobe Digital Editions is an engaging way to read and manage eBooks and other digital publications. It is a lightweight, rich Internet application (RIA). Adobe Digital Editions works online and offline and supports PDF- and XHTML-based content as well as Adobe Flash SWF for rich interactivity. The current beta includes a new version of DRM (Digital Rights Management) protection. If you plan on using Digital Editions for mission critical work, Adobe recommend that, if possible, you continue to use Digital Editions 1.0 until Digital Editions version 1.5 has reached commercial release status.

You can install Adobe Digital Editions on your system a number of different ways. The simplest is to visit the <a href="http://labs.adobe.com/technologies/digitaleditions/install/">installer page</a>. From there you can simply install Adobe Digital Editions. Alternatively, you may be prompted to install Adobe Digital Editions when buying or borrowing an item from the library. In this case, the installation is part of the download process.

Note: You'll also need to uninstall Adobe Digital Editions 1.0 if you already have one installed. Running Digital Editions 1.0 and 1.5 simultaneously will cause issues with accessing and managing your content.