# Adobe School Innovation Awards

The theme of 2008's <a href="http://www.adobe.com/education/solutions/k12/awards/">Adobe School Innovation Awards</a> is My Community -- My Planet -- My 21st Century. High school students in grades 9-12 (ages 14-19) can submit entries in three categories: Web Design and Development, Film and Video, and Graphic and Print Design. Category award winners as well as one grand prize winner for best overall submission will be chosen. Prizes include software, cash, a laptop computer, and a trip to NECC being held in San Antonio, Texas. 

Submitted projects, dealing with students' community, the world around them, and their own future, should showcase the most creative and innovative use of technology using Adobe products. The deadline for submissions is May 12, 2008. Winners will be announced at NECC in San Antonio, Texas.

Adobe believes that engaging learning experiences are the foundation of a great education. By working with technology as part of project-based curricula or in vocational tracks preparing them for the future, students more easily develop the essential, lifelong digital communication skills they will need in virtually all their academic and professional pursuits.

To honor the hard work of students everywhere, Adobe have announced the opening of the 2008 Adobe School Innovation Awards competition. High school students in accredited private and public schools in the United States and Canada (except Quebec) can submit their innovative and creative projects and can win exciting prizes, including a trip to the annual National Education Computing Conference (NECC) in San Antonio, Texas, at the end of June 2008. 