# BODD - Digital Doppelgänger for your AI

Today, we are co-living with some form of Artificial Intelligence (AI), and we cannot ignore this digital realm anymore.

We need an easier, simpler, yet secure way to manifest our avatar in the scary yet exciting and inevitable world of AI-Internet. Everyone is going to become “intelligent”, monotonously similar, and erroneously generic.

You do not need to stand out or be unique; you need to be you.

We should be able to spawn personas and avatars that reflect the context of the digital realms we want to be part of. Of course, you are likely to use an AI tool as your companion, either from a third-party provider or as part of your Operating System.

- Applying for a job where you are focused more on your skills that are relevant to that job, and highlighting key areas where you have had success, rather than just listing everything that you have ever done.
- Playing a new game, and you want to be that gamer avatar, where you are the master of planning and strategy. The AI remembers your particular persona and contexts to help you play more meaningfully.

[BODD](https://github.com/oinam/bodd) is an attempt to be a portable context layer that’s tool-agnostic, human-readable, version-controllable, and parsable by any AI tool that accepts system prompts or context files.

Tools such as ChatGPT, Claude, Gemini, Grok, and others work better if they know and have a better memory of you. However, we still do not want to reveal everything either.

The tools are getting better, and better ones will come along; replace the current tools. BODD helps you separate and maintain your memory and context across tools.

A very early stage in maintaining context data and serving as your Digital Doppelgänger(s) in [Plain-Text](/2022/plain-text/) (Markdown). Plain enough for a human to read, and format common for AI to interpret and consume in their own ways.

› [Check out, play, tinker with, and extend the BODD template.](https://github.com/oinam/bodd) Suggestions, ideas, pull requests, and anything else are welcome.
