---
layout: post
title: India's Software Developer Awards
---
<p>Saltmarch Media's annual Great Indian Developer Awards honor technologies that are contributing to the productivity and innovation excellence of the Indian developer ecosystem. The awards recognize the product and innovation excellence of the hundreds of software products and tools that aid developer productivity, across 11 different categories. The selection criteria applied places emphasis on functionality, usability, innovation excellence, bleeding-edge quotient, and feedback from the developer ecosystem. <a href="http://www.developermarch.com/developersummit/awards.html#longlist">Nominations</a> to the 2011 edition of the awards are invited.</p>
<p>IT professionals are invited to nominate software tools, frameworks and platforms that are not only popular in your development organizations, but also have changed the way you approach your development tasks and ushered in innovation, cost-effectiveness, performance improvements and ease of use.</p>

<h3>Award Categories</h3>
<p>* Development Environments: nominate from the new breed programming languages, source code editors and integrated development environments (IDEs). Past winners in this category include MS VS 2010 and 2008 and Oracle JDeveloper.<br />
* Collaboration Solution: nominate from groupware, real-time conferencing and collaboration, and digital communities. Past winners are Citrix GoToMeeting, Adobe Acrobat Connect Professional and Oracle Collaboration Suite.<br />
* Content Management: nominate from content creation, categorization, workflow, publishing and delivery tools. Past winners include EMC Documentum and Microsoft Office Sharepoint Server.<br />
* Design and Modeling: requirements gathering, modeling, prototyping, GUI design, analysis tools, including automatically generating code from models. Past winners are IBM Rational Rose, No Magic MagicDraw UML and VSTS 2008 - Architecture Edition.<br />
* Change and Configuration Management: nominate from across tools that track and manage software defects and enhancement requests as well as version control and change or configuration management. Past winners are Collabnet TeamForge, and VSTS and CollabNet SourceForge Enterprise Edition.<br />
* Testing: the best solution developed to test the functionality of a software product or service or a segment of code. Nominate from across test scripting, automation, static and defect tracking, bug tracking and documentation, functional and load testing, quality assurance planning, test-case design, white- and black-box testing and source code analysis. Past winners include JBoss Profiler and Borland SilkTest.<br />
* Security: nominate tools from across authentication and encryption, code analysis, firewalls, network monitoring, system enhancements, system monitoring and spam prevention. Past winners are Kaspersky Open Space Security, Quest InTrust and Oracle Identity Management Suite.<br />
* Web Development: nominate from web development and deployment tools that are helping developers and designers push the boundaries of the web. Past winners include Adobe Flash Platform and Adobe ColdFusion 8.<br />
* Mobile Development: awards the best software application, software service or infrastructure solution that enables access to software functionality and boosts the productivity and adaptability of a mobile device including small form factor devices and/or phones. Includes operating systems, infrastructure and network solutions. Past winners are Nokia Symbian and Eclipse eRCP.<br />
* Frameworks: nominate from across the several libraries, components, and frameworks that are part of every developers treasure chest. Past winners are .NET Framework 3.5, Adobe Flex and .NET Framework 3.0.<br />
* Database: awards the best software solution for the storage, organization, management, search, editing, reporting, analysis, and retrieval of large quantities of data. Past winners are Oracle Database 11g, SAP BusinessObjects Crystal Reports and MySQL.</p>
<p>A highly participatory process, the decision is staggered across four stages. Stages I through III involve a democratic community participation with long lists and short lists for each category, and subsequent voting on those lists. Winners will be announced and honored at an exclusive awards ceremony to be held in conjunction with <a href="http://www.eventogo.com/India/Conference/Great-Indian-Developer-Summit-2011/event12172.html">Great Indian Developer Summit 2011</a> at the Indian Institute of Science campus, Bangalore, on Wednesday, 20 April 2011.</p>
