# Tuk Tuk - Indi-genius GPS Auto Fare Technology
<h3>GPS to the Rescue!</h3>
<p>Here is good.. no make that great news for public transport commuters in India and a heaven sent boon for tourists in India. The actual source of this technology is far from heavenly though GPS is an eerily accurate technology which might be contested by conspiracy theory buffs as supernatural in origin. Jokes apart, <a href="http://www.mindhelix.com/">MindHelix Technologies</a>, a Kerala (India) based company formed last month by an engineer and two engineering students launched <a href="http://tuktuk.mindhelix.com/">Tuk Tuk Meter</a>. This claims to be India's first GPS based multi-platform Auto fare calculator that runs through smart phones which can be started on getting into the auto-rickshaw and the meter in the phone will run alongside the meter in the rickshaw. It can also double-check the distance travelled as shown in the auto's meter and the GPS distance calculated by the application, Thomas Antony, Chief Technology Officer of MeindHelix, said.</p>

<h3>Multi-Platform Mobile App</h3>
<p>According to Christian Emmanuel George, Co-Founder and CEO of MindHelix Technologies, the application enables the commuter to calculate the distance travelled using GPS and also calculate the fare due. The application runs on smart phones with Android, Blackberry or Symbian operating systems without any need for calculating manual distance or fare entry, he told reporters. The application has a Start/Stop button and can be customized for any location by entering the fare details in the settings page. The auto fare calculator would bring relief to commuters who in many cases are hoodwinked by auto-rickshaw drivers. It also does not require an Internet connection, due to which it can function even in remote areas, George said.</p>
<h3>Emerging Mobile Application Player</h3>
<p>MindHelix aims to be a market leader in creating Mobile Games and Applications for emerging markets like China and India. They have nine applications in different stages of development, including games, other travel related applications and corporate communication tools. The company is also in talks for getting suitable partners to achieve the targets.</p>
