---
layout: post
title: The Goal
date: 2004-09-20 22:46:09.000000000 +05:30
type: post
parent_id: '0'
published: true
password: ''
status: publish
categories:
- General
tags: []
meta:
  bitly_short_url: http://j.mp/jBjZVF
  retweet_cache: '1309547403:0'
  dsq_thread_id: '890206516'
  trx_addons_post_views_count: '38'
author:
  login: Brajeshwar
  email: brajeshwar@gmail.com
  display_name: Brajeshwar
  first_name: Brajeshwar
  last_name: Oinam
permalink: "/2004/the-goal/"
---
<p>I just finished reading the book "A process of ongoing improvement, <a href="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0884271781/qid=1095032179/sr=1-1/ref=sr_1_1/104-0088802-2039932?v=glance&s=books" title="The Goal">The Goal</a>", a book from <a href="http://toc-goldratt.com/" title="Eliyahu M. Goldratt">Eliyahu M. Goldratt</a> and <a href="http://jeffcox.com/" title="Jeff Cox">Jeff Cox</a>. I bought the book while I was on my usual book buying trip and I don't regret picking it up. Ok, before you go ahead, I would like to suggest that if you would not like to go into leading a team, be a project manager or a manger, better stay away from this book, it will not really be a palatable subject for you.<br />
<br />
The author deals mostly in a way where he uses day-to-day happening to apply to his issues, problem; his plant here in the book. He even learns a good lesson from his son's tracking team. And this book deals and talks about management in a story-narrating pattern and tells you a story of how he goes about solving his problems in his office.</p>
<p>As a plant manager, he faces many contrasting ideas between the marketing, accounting, production and other departments in his organization. He then gets back to his old lecturer, a management guru, solves the problems.</p>
<p>Ok, then how do we apply the ideas, if at all, we have learnt anything from the book?<br />
Well, the ways we can apply is how we can manage time, our skillset usage and time wasted, consumed in doing other side-works that are not directly but rather in-directly contribute to your work (like experiments, browsing, reading) and in turn affecting our ROI, paychecks, client's payments. I would rather be saying that we should apply more with time management as that is the most critical thing that we can go wayward with our type of work; development. If you are a project manager or a team leader, then it will apply more appropriately by improving your organizational effectiveness, productivity, reduce team members' mis-management.</p>
