---
layout: post
title: 5 Most Useful Computing Tools for Small Businesses
---

It is often seen in the business world that small enterprises are constantly bombarded with several problems. And these are problems that hit these micro business firms quite frequently, eventually tripping the entire business into a large predicament which many entrepreneurs find it difficult to solve. But this does not seem to be the problem with Larger and financially well-endowed firms, cause they can easily afford to purchase, install and run efficient business tools and programs, hence enabling the smooth functioning of operations.

But it cannot be all hell for the small business enterprises and yes, there does seem to exist some respite for them with the emergence and presence of certain world-class business tools that can be availed for at zero costs. Let's have a look at 5 of the best free computing software tools that facilitate small enterprises:

- Business Apps from Google Enterprises that employ up to 50 employees can utilize <a href="http://www.google.com/apps/">Google Apps</a> for Business which was formerly known as Google Apps for Domain. Firms can have e-mail services in their own domain with the payment of a small fee of $10 which in fact goes into booking the organization's domain name. Along with owning an e-mail service which is quite similar to Gmail, small businesses can also enjoy the services of Google Docs System and Google Calendar System. There is no necessity of companies to own mail server systems, instead everything shall be saved and processed on Google computers (servers).  Limitations here would be the 50 user-limit, with each user restricted to send e-mails to only 500 recipients per day and also a 25MB limit on attachments in e-mails  could also be hazardous for certain small creative consultants who generally work on heavily sized documents and files.
- Dropbox A sync and backup tool is what <a href="http://www.dropbox.com/">Dropbox</a> is, which uses the cloud to remotely save files. This tool will enables small businesses to save as many documents or files as they want. How? Though a tedious process, it does seem <a href="http://www.pcworld.com/article/203527/dropbox_lets_you_work_on_all_your_pcsor_anyone_elses.html">simple</a>. The Dropbox invisibly transfers all the files stored in the Dropbox folder existing in the hard disk of the system to its cloud storage space. Firms can install this software in as many computers as possible using the same login details and create even more backups. The firm then doesn't need to worry too much on the loss of a laptop whose important files and folders are already backed up on the Dropbox's Cloud server. The maximum space offered for free is 2 GB.
- Microsoft Antivirus Any security essential for computer systems used in business is definitely useful to keep systems under check so as to save them from crashing and losing all the necessary files. Microsoft recently made its <a href="http://www.microsoft.com/security_essentials/">Security Essential software</a> free for small business firms, which was earlier free for domestic users. The limit stands at 10 users per firm though, which is better than not having any systems protected at all. The new Security Essential is slow in scanning, yet does the job of protecting systems in the best possible ways.
- Linux Newly bought PCs already have Microsoft Windows embedded onto them, so it would be taxing for small businesses to adapt to <a href="http://www.pcworld.com/businesscenter/article/210411/5_awesome_free_tools_for_small_businesses.html">Linux</a>. But to use Linux from a financial standpoint could be very fruitful for small firm. This avoids the need to pay for expensive Windows Server licenses. The best open OS should be Ubuntu to which small firms can give a try on some old PC and then decide whether it is useful for them or not.
- Go-OO Office Suite This is quite a good replacement for Microsoft Office tools which is mostly called <a href="http://go-oo.org/">OpenOffice.org</a>. The best part with this suite is that it keeps getting better with every version. Office tasks that are otherwise done using Microsoft Office tools, which come at a cost, are functioned smoothly using this suite which by the way comes at no cost at all.

There you go, 5 of the best, reliable and free-of-cost business computing tools that could help a small business enterprise reach the skies.
