# Google Chrome 6 launched on its 2nd Anniversary!

Recently Google Chrome celebrated its <a href="http://googleblog.blogspot.com/2010/09/back-to-future-two-years-of-google.html">second anniversary</a>. On the same day, this popular web browser has released its new version to millions of users. From the hay days, Chrome has been very popular and currently ranks third among the top web browsers. Chrome is successful in attracting the attention of millions of web users, due to its lightning speed as well as clutter-free and minimal interface. 

Further, Google has also stated that it intends to provide users with better stability and fewer crashes. Google also informed that Chrome's latest version comes with a relaxing color scheme & several new features. Made available to countless users since 2008, experts knew that this browser has the potential of being one of the most used browsers, as it gives prime importance to its performance and the exciting user interface. It is successful in attracting a great deal of hard-earned attention. Today, Chrome enjoys almost 7.52% of global market share, which would hover around 80 million users.

Recently, Google has demonstrated few highly experimental tab features, which offer an overview of the actual working of Chrome tabbing, which in probability would be eventually enhanced. Mozilla Firefox's Panorama feature has been very popular among the users across the world, thereby motivating Google to create something that would be more automatic and would not need the intervention from the users.

According to Google, the JavaScript performance in the latest version is much faster, and one of the most important features is its support for HTML 5. Version 6 has added features like hardware acceleration, improved results, and faster performance for its users. Its user base is growing every month and is proving to be a major threat to the supremacy of Microsoft's Internet Explorer and Mozilla Firefox.  Various extensions supported by this browser make things trouble-free for the demanding users.

Google's Chrome team wants to achieve its aim, of being the <em>numero-uno</em> browser across the web, and for that, it has adopted an extremely rapid and incremental expansion model. Chrome version 6 is their first release, after which they are planning to push out new stable releases, every six weeks, which is a fast-paced growth vis-a-vis other browsers. Coupled with its aggressive and highly useful background updater, it is expected that the users will get the newest and greatest features.

In the past two years, Google Chrome has made significant progress and has a bright future ahead. The latest Version 6 of <a href="http://www.google.com/chrome/">Chrome</a> is available for immediate download. Existing users of Chrome can have their updates automatically.

<iframe width="800" height="450" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/0QRO3gKj3qw" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
